feat: Include messaging in the cookbook (#210)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/05_messaging/01_messaging.md

---
id: messaging_book
title: Generate a Message
---

import SnippetBlock from '@site/src/components/SnippetBlock';

import GenerateMessage from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/messaging/01_generate_message.ts';
import EncryptMessage from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/messaging/02_encrypt_message.ts';
import DecryptMessage from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/messaging/03_decrypt_message.ts';

> KILT uses a custom [Messaging protocol](../../../../concepts/06_messaging.md) that enables users of the KILT protocol to communicate via [unicast network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicast).

Reviewer: I would only say that. Otherwise it sounds like KILT is a messaging app.

```suggestion
KILT defines a [unicast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicast) [messaging protocol](../../../../concepts/06_messaging.md).
```

> The message types are defined by the actions that will be resolved by the receiver.

Reviewer: I would not mention message types here. This sentence only confuses i think.

Author: I have removed this

Each of the messages sent are encrypted using the DID key agreement keys (see DID keys).

> The keys of both receiver and sender must be verifiable by querying the given DID of both parties.

Reviewer: Without knowing DIDs this sentence is hard to understand.  What does verifiable mean? Where do I query the DID?

Maybe that is enough?
```suggestion
The key agreement key of a DID can be queried from the KILT blockchain.
```

> A message is formed from a message body that is a specific type along with the DID's URI senders and receivers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A message consists of the senders DID URI, the receivers DID URI, the message type and the body.
```

> There are several types of structure for the demo will be generating a `request-credential` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple different message types.
In this example we are going to build a `request-credential` message.
```

> The message structure is checked and validated on the protocol level to ensure the users are sending correctly structured messages.

Reviewer: This should be a given. Not sure if we need to mention this
```suggestion
The message structure is checked and validated on by the KILT SDK to ensure the users are sending correctly structured messages.
```

<SnippetBlock
  className="language-ts"
>
  {GenerateMessage}

> </SnippetBlock>

Reviewer: the code examples look broken when they are rendered. I would rather use a `TsJsBlock` so that you can also see the imports.

Also the code doesn't get mentioned in the text. If we have a code example we should somehow mention it in the text? What does it do? What do we show? etc...

Author: I have included some example information.

## Encryption

> The messages data are encrypted and decrypted using nacl's 'x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305' algorithm, which provides repudiable authenticated encryption based on an x25519 key agreement.

Reviewer: Are we using tweetnacl-js? a link would be cool here.
Also maybe `repudiable authenticated encryption` could be explained a little more. Not everyone will know what this means.

```suggestion
The messages data are encrypted and decrypted using [nacl's](https://github.com/dchest/tweetnacl-js) 'x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305' algorithm, which provides repudiable authenticated encryption based on an x25519 key agreement.
```

The DID holds the keys for the encryption and decryptions.

> These keys are called `KeyAgreement` keys this key can be also known as encryption keys.

Reviewer: There is only a single key agreement key right?

Author: You can have multiple key agreement keys. I believe, but maybe Antonio can clarify.

Reviewer 2: There can be multiple, correct.

> The different keys are found within the [DID Spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#verification-relationships).

Reviewer: We don't need the other keys here so I wouldn't mention them.

Author: Yes, I have removed the information.

> The content of the object is converted from a serialised string to a unit 8 array, which is passed into the callback function along with the senders DID and key agreement public key of the receiver.

Reviewer: This comes a little sudden, there is some information missing.
which object? what serialized string? What call back function what does it do? 

```suggestion
The content of the object is converted from a serialized string to a byte array, which is passed into the callback function along with the senders DID and key agreement public key of the receiver.
```

<SnippetBlock
  className="language-ts"
>
  {EncryptMessage}
</SnippetBlock>

The encrypted data is converted into a Hex string which is known as the ciphertext along with the nonce that was generated during encryption.

## Decryption

The decryption takes the encrypted message and decypher the content.
The function takes a credential from the receiver and checks it against the request credentials content to see if they have a valid credential to send back.

<SnippetBlock
  className="language-ts"
>
  {DecryptMessage}

> </SnippetBlock>

Reviewer: I would only show decryption here. The everything else is just distracting.

Author: I opted to go for something that had more substance. But, I understand the reasoning.

What do you think about a one-liner to explain what can be done after decrypting?

Author: Forwarding them to present a credential or submitting a claim.

`After decrypting, the receiver may wish to present a credential from the trusted attester list with a given ctype. If they do not have the given credential, they may need to get a credential`

Reviewer: yes sounds good

---
id: messaging_book
title: Generate a Message
---

import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';

import GenerateMessage from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/messaging/01_generate_message.ts';
import EncryptMessage from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/messaging/02_encrypt_message.ts';
import DecryptMessage from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/messaging/03_decrypt_message.ts';

> KILT defines a [unicast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicast) [messaging protocol](../../../../concepts/06_messaging.md).

Reviewer 2: We are in the concepts section, I think this is too much to start the whole paragraph with.

Author: Maybe, this is the disconnect people are talking about. It doesn't have information that helps form the reader. We jump into code.

This can be a problem if we just link to the concepts they completely move away from the code.

> Each of the messages sent are encrypted using the [DID key agreement key](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#key-agreement).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of the messages sent is encrypted using the [DID key agreement key](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#key-agreement).
```

> The key agreement key of a DID can be queried from the KILT blockchain.

Reviewer 2: This is ambiguous. You can't encrypt something with information you can query from the blockchain, same way you can't decrypt it. Can we clarify better what we mean here?

> A message consists of the senders DID URI, the receivers DID URI, the message type and the body.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A message consists of the sender's DID URI, the receiver's DID URI, the message type and the body.
```

Technically, a message consists of the key agreement key URIs of sender and receiver, not of their URIs.

> There are multiple different message types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are multiple different message types, each of them with a different structure and containing different information.
```

In this example we are going to build a `request-credential` message.
The message structure is checked and validated on by the KILT SDK to ensure the users are sending correctly structured messages.

The following example here will generate a message by constructing the message content.
The message content includes a valid `cTypeHash` and a list of `trusted attesters`.

> The message requires a `messageBody`, sender and receiver uri.

Reviewer 2: Same as above, we talk about keys and not DID URIs here.

Author: When we send a message, we include the URI of the sender and receiver.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I did not expect that. Good to know.

<TsJsBlock>
  {GenerateMessage}
</TsJsBlock>

## Encryption

> The messages data are encrypted and decrypted using [nacl's](https://github.com/dchest/tweetnacl-js) 'x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305' algorithm, which provides repudiable authenticated encryption based on an x25519 key agreement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The messages data are encrypted and decrypted using [nacl's](https://github.com/dchest/tweetnacl-js) 'x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305' algorithm, which provides repudiable authenticated encryption based on an x25519 key agreement protocol.
```
